# Movie_Recommendation

Recommendation systems are one of the most successful areas of machine learning applications. A recommendation system is a type of information filtering system which attempts to predict the preferences of a user and make suggestions based on those preferences. With the high volume of data being generated, movie recommendations are becoming more and more sophisticated especially post the pandemic. Commercial movie libraries effectively exceed 15 million films, which boundlessly exceeds the visual ability of any single individual. With a large number of motion pictures to browse, individuals now and then get overwhelmed, and therefore businesses are not able to retain their existing customer base. An efficient recommendation system is necessary for both the business and the customer. Traditional recommendation methods are difficult to express the essential information of the data and require manual extraction of features. The effect of feature extraction often determines the performance of those algorithms, therefore in recent years, deep learning has been favored by most researchers. While deep neural networks generate recommendations based on historical data of users' movie history, it does not provide a solution to long-term user engagement. Reinforcement learning can help by introducing exploration which lets the model learn about new interests over time in movie recommendations. As part of this project, we are doing a comparative study between three algorithms used to make movie recommendations namely,Matrix Factorization,Deep Learning, and Reinforcement Learning.

We are using a subset of the https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/ - MovieLens 25M dataset which describes 5-star rating and free-text tagging activity from MovieLens, a movie recommendation service. The entire dataset contains 25000095 ratings and 1093360 tag applications across 62423 movies. This data was created by 162541 users between January 09, 1995, and November 21, 2019, and was generated on November 21, 2019. Users were selected at random for inclusion and all selected users had rated at least 20 movies. No demographic information is included; each user is represented by an id, and no other information is provided.
